>> Maximiliano Firtman: Around the same
idea of working with nulls and
undefines, let's look at this example.
Let's analyze this example.
And maybe in this example, it's actually
pretty simple, but
I can give you one minute so
you can try it on your own and
see if it works.
So there is a new operator known as
the Optional Chaining Operator that
is also available in other languages.
Look at this, we have an array of users.
Each user has a name and
sometimes an address.
And the address sometimes has a city,
but for Singapore, for example,
we don't have a city,
we have just a country.
It's kind of a city country, Singapore,
I'm not sure if you've been there.
But I think there is only another
city that is the island, but
it's kind of a city state.
So then we don't have a city.
So, well, but I wanna render something,
well, like this.
I mean, you say, well,
we can use this nullish coalescing
operator if there is no city, okay?
No city defined,
which is okay, that works.
What is the problem here?
If I run this code,
this is going using a for-of,
it's looping through all the users.
The first one works,
it says New York, okay?
Because it works, but
on the second one, we have an error,
we have a runtime exception.
Cannot read properties of undefined,
reading city.
So the second one has no address.
So it's not working.
So then you need to start saying,
well, if, okay?
Or before that,
if it doesn't contain the address.
Let me remove that for a second.
If I run this, the other one doesn't work
because it contains the address, but
it doesn't contain the city.
So when it tries to convert the city
to uppercase, the city is undefined,
so you cannot execute a method
toUpperCase of an undefined.
So here we have the problem,
address can be null or
undefined, or
city can be null or undefined.
So let me show you the new operator
separately, with nothing here.
So let's go back to this idea
that I may have a name, okay?
Or not.
So I create a variable name and I can
do a console log with the name, okay?
Nothing happens.
But if I try to convert this to uppercase,
for example,
I cannot execute the method of
an undefined, it'll give me an error.
Well, the new Optional Chaining Operator
lets you add a question
mark before the dot, like that.
So I have a question mark before the dot.
It's like saying, if there is a name,
execute the method.
If there's no name,
the whole expression returns undefined.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
now I'm saying nothing, but not an error.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay,
not an error.
Maybe I could now mix this
with a nullish operator and
say, well, no name, because they hope,
but I don't get an error.
That's the important part, okay?
That I don't get an error.
So now let's take one minute.
I think one minute should
be enough to see if you
can load Operators Optional Chaining and
make this code work applying
the Optional Chaining Operator.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
what's the goal?
I don't wanna see an error, okay?
So then I need to start
playing with this and
adding the optional chaining
operator on some places.
For example,
the first problem that I have is with
Mary that doesn't contain an address.
So then I will say if the address exists,
so
I will add a question mark there.
So if I run this,
now it go through the second example,
but not the third one, why?
Because the third one, Sophie,
has an address with no city.
So I can use the same operator twice
in the same expression, it's okay.
And then if I run this, now, I also don't
have a city for Sophie, which now works.
Maybe you're thinking, well,
should I add this to user as well?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I mean, you can.
I mean, for this particular
example doesn't make any sense,
unless you have one
particular user that is null.
If that's the case, it's fine.
So you can add that
operator on every call,
every property access,
every method you're calling.
Don't get too comfortable with that.
So don't go, and every time you use a dot,
you add the question mark.
That's not the idea, okay?
Because then you will
have debugging problem,
because sometimes you
shouldn't be receiving that.
And it's okay to maybe trigger
an exception in the system.
You don't wanna continue with undefineds
when it's not really the case.
>> Audience: On line 13,
it'll blow up now, right?
Because it'll try to look up
the .name property on null.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: On line 13,
here, you say the name?
>> Audience: Yeah.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah, you're
right, if I run this it's not working for
the names, but
then I can use it here as well.
And you can mix this together, and
instead of creating a variable city you
can pull everything like this here,
and mix this with this other argument.
So now, if you have an user,
if the user has an address,
if the address has a city,
you convert that to uppercase.
And if any of those is null or undefined,
then no city defined for that user name.
By the way, here we can continue this and
say, if there is no name,
no user or something like that,
whatever, no user, no name.
So you can mix all these question mark.
But again, try to be smart,
clever about when to use them,
because if you use them everywhere,
it's actually an anti-pattern.
Now it's time to continue with operators.
Now talking about logical assignment.
So this has to do with something that you
probably know when you are working with
other operators.
For example,
when you have something like this,
and then you say a+=1,
you're using this assignment operator.
Well, this is for an arithmetic operation.
We have the same thing since ES2021,
but for logical operators.
So, for example, in this case,
for the and operator,
when you have this situation where
you take the same variable here and
here, we can use this, &=,
something like that, or |=.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: And
also we have this one,
which is interesting.
Semantically, when you look at that,
it's weird to see this.
Why do you want to do that?
But it's okay.
It's like redefining c,
if it's undefined or null.
>> Audience: Yeah, that is the difference
between line 11 and line 8, right?
Is that 8 will pull up empty string, 0-
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
exactly, because this one is similar.
In fact,
it was a common pattern to use the or
operator to mimic this
nullish coalescent operator.
But yeah, the difference has to do
with which parts give you false.
That in this case, empty string and other
things will also give you a difference
compared with when you use the other one.
I don't think you would use this a lot.
I mean, it's okay to have them, but
it's not gonna make any big difference.
Something similar comes here.
Instead of using Math.pow for power of,
now you can use this new operator,
**, that will make the same trick.
Straightforward, okay?
But this is one example of something that
is not gonna work on other browsers.
So this is from 2016, so
anyway at this point it's kind of safe.
But IE11 will give you
a syntax error on that line.
So when you are using a transpiler, they
are just going back to the solution where
you're using that operator, the transpiler
will convert that into Math.pow.
That works anyway, okay?
So it's syntax sure.